(mellow music)
Alright, in this video
we are gonna start adapting our project to use WebFlux.
Now, as you may recall, previously we talked about this.
We actually have two web APIs that are running in parallel.
We have very similar top-level functions,
but what we need to do is bring in Spring WebFlux
and get rid of the traditional Spring Web MVC.
So I've got the official Spring documentation
here on the screen.
So we will configure the application the same,
so we still use @Controller and @RequestMapping.
There's some new functionality inside
of Spring Framework 5 for router functions,
which we haven't got to, but we will.
And right now, we are configured using Spring Web MVC.
And we wanna switch over to WebFlux.
Now, the problem that we're gonna encounter coming up,
is right now we do have components
that are using the Servlet API.
And now we wanna go over to the Reactive Stream stuff.
So, when we change the references in our project,
things are gonna break.
So let's jump over to IntelliJ now,
and I'll show you what we need to do.
So, there's two starters there.
The starter web brings in the Servlet API.
Now, the starter webflux brings in the WebFlux stuff.
So you can't run 'em both.
You can't run 'em both concurrently,
but it's really a "one or another."
But when we do this, we will lose.
When we get rid of this and bring in this guy,
we are gonna break a bunch of stuff.
So we can see that IntelliJ is going out
and re-indexing the project, and let's go ahead.
Once it gets done detecting the dependencies,
we'll go ahead and build a project.
And we're gonna see we do have dependencies
directly on the Servlet API.
So let's go ahead and build a project,
and we are gonna get a few things blowing up.
And what I'm gonna do is comment those out.
And so you can see here,
model and view no longer exist.
So, there's a few things that we need to change.
Now I'm gonna go in and refactor this.
I'm gonna pause the video, refactor it,
then we'll step through the changes that I made.
Okay, I've gone through and refactored a few things,
and a couple things that we're gonna have
to address coming up.
So the exception handler stuff is no longer working,
and the Model and View is gone
from the Spring Framework, the Reactive stuff.
So we're gonna have to find a replacement for that.
So, this exception handler is broken.
And then our image handler, where we're taking in
that file upload, that is also broken.
So, had to comment out some stuff there.
I'm just commenting it out for now.
We will definitely address it as we move through
and refactor this project, to be fully reactive.
And then the RecipeController again,
our ExceptionHandler here.
So we're gonna have to find a new technique
to handle that.
But that's the only change that I made.
You can see that I brought up the version control,
and these five files were changed,
and I just commented out the stuff
that went away, and we'll have to re-fix this.
What I wanna show you now,
we're gonna bring that back up.
So, we got the application running now,
and we can see that we are now running Netty,
rather than Tomcat.
So we have the Netty server running,
and let's jump over here and do a refresh,
and we can see that our application is still running.
So now we're running reactive stuff on Netty.
And what's important to remember is that,
and this is all being driven by the dependencies
that we're picking up inside build.gradle,
so now we changed out these dependencies.
And Spring Boot is configuring itself differently,
so it is now coming up with Netty,
because we brought in the Webflux dependencies.
So now it wired that up.
Now if I bring in Tomcat specifically,
it will configure itself for Tomcat.
So that's how Spring Boot works.
So, you get a lot of advantages using Spring Boot here,
but I wanna point out, now that we're
on the reactive stack, so remember,
now we've reconfigured things,
and we're now running on spring-webflux.
Our @Controller and @RequestMapping remain the same.
All that stuff continues to work, but now,
we're not on the spring-webmvc stack anymore,
which uses the Servlet API and the Servlet Container.
We are now under webflux, which by default,
under Spring Boot, since we didn't specify anything else,
we are now using the Netty container.
So, quite a bit of difference,
but you could see we didn't change very much,
and Spring Boot went through
and reconfigured everything for us,
to use the reactive Netty environment.
And coming up, what we're gonna need to do
is start refactoring things.
Because right now, we still have Thymeleaf
in a non-reactive mode, and we're still passing
non-reactive objects into Thymeleaf.
So we wanna get our whole application fully reactive,
end to end, and we'll do that in upcoming videos.
Okay, there's one other thing
that I wanted to add to this video.
And this is for testing, so I'm gonna go ahead
and run this, and show you the errors that we're gonna get.
So, our tests are gonna be failing
because we are using the Spring MVC test framework,
and we can see here, we are getting Servlet...
NoClassDefFound the ServletException.
So, the mockMvc stuff is specific to Spring MVC,
so these tests are failing,
and we're gonna have to refactor the test.
But for right now, I'm gonna ignore the test,
get this checked in, and we're definitely
gonna address this in a future video.
But for now, I'm gonna ignore the test
as we go through and refactor the project.
We will get our test coverage back.
We most certainly will get our test coverage back.
But, we're gonna have to use a different technique
to test the Webflux stack.
So the mockMvc stuff clearly is tied
to the Servlet API, which is why it's going kaboom.
Can't find a class, so we're gonna go ahead
and ignore these tests for right now,
and then in a future video, we will address it
and get these tests up and cooking again.